

---
## Page 1
---

# Synthesis and structure of novel lithium-ion conductor $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$

## Article info

Keywords:  
- Lithium ion conductor  
- Argyrodit e structure  
- $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$  
- All-solid-state battery

## Abstract

The novel lithium-ion conductor $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ was synthesized by slow cooling from the ternary $Li_2S$–$GeS_2$–$P_2S_5$ system, and was shown to exhibit a cubic argyrodite-type structure. The phase composition was determined by varying the ratio of starting materials; the observed monophasic properties were close to those for the $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ composition. The lattice parameter ($a = 9.80192(3)\ \text{\AA}$) of $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ was slightly smaller than that of $Li_7PS_6$ ($a = 9.993\ \text{\AA}$), indicating that substitution of a Li cation by the smaller Ge cation contracted the cubic lattice. In addition, the novel structure consisted of a framework composed of four isolated $(Ge/P)S_4$ tetrahedra. $Li^+$ ions occupied tetrahedral sites within the framework, forming a three-dimensional conduction pathway. Finally, $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ exhibited a high ionic conductivity of $1.1\times10^{-4}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at $25\,^\circ\mathrm{C}$ and an activation energy of $25\ \mathrm{kJ\ mol^{-1}}$.

---

## 1. Introduction

Lithium-ion conductors are of great interest for use as solid electrolytes in lithium-ion batteries, as they have the potential to allow operation under significantly more severe conditions than those suitable for current battery systems [1,2]. In particular, the development of stable and non-flammable electrolytes could improve battery reliability, with solid electrolytes being promising candidates for this purpose. However, a number of issues remain, including the search for novel solid electrolytes exhibiting high lithium-ion conductivity combined with high electrochemical and chemical stabilities [2–5]. Thus, the discovery and development of new lithium-ion conducting solids is important to provide additional materials for all-solid-state battery systems.

One example of a crystalline superionic conductor is $Li_{10}GeP_2S_{12}$, which exhibits an extremely high lithium-ion conductivity of $1.2\times10^{-2}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at $27\,^\circ\mathrm{C}$ and a high electrochemical stability $>5\ \mathrm{V}$ versus lithium [1]. This material exists in the $Li_2S$–$GeS_2$–$P_2S_5$ system, which also includes a number of other lithium-ion conductors with high ionic conductivities. Examples include $Li_4GeS_4$–$Li_3PS_4$ solid solutions with the LISICON-type structure [6,7], $Li_7PS_6$ with the argyrodite-type structure [8,9], and $Li_7P_3S_{11}$ glass ceramics [10]. Indeed, previous reports have indicated that this quasi-ternary system could provide various novel materials exhibiting high lithium-ion conducting characteristics, with a number of materials potentially remaining unexplored.

Among the various ionic conductors reported to date, materials exhibiting an argyrodite-type structure can be considered interesting candidates because they allow anion/cation substitution in their crystal structure [11]. The term argyrodite is derived from the mineral $Ag_8GeS_6$. Various atomic substitutions in the structure of this mineral have provided a wide range of argyrodite-type materials suitable for the ionic conduction of monovalent cations, including $Ag^+$ and $Cu^+$ [12,13]. However, to date, only a few argyrodite-type materials had been reported as lithium-ion conductors in the anion/cation substituted $Li_7PS_6$ system. For example, halogen-substituted compounds such as $Li_6PS_5X$ ($X = Cl, Br, I$) have cubic argyrodite-type structures and exhibit a lithium-ion conductivity of $10^{-4}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at room temperature [14,15]. The argyrodite structure consists of 136 tetrahedral sites in a unit cell, including four isolated $PS_4$ tetrahedra in a tetrahedrally close-packed anion array, in which 24 lithium ions occupy sites within the remaining 132 empty tetrahedral sites [11]. This distribution of lithium ions, which contributes to ionic diffusion, is characteristic of the argyrodite structure.

Thus, we herein report the development of a novel lithium-ion conducting crystalline material, focusing on the ternary $Li_2S$–$GeS_2$–$P_2S_5$ system, examining a previously un-synthesized composition. A systematic materials search will be carried out to identify any novel crystalline materials, and the relationship between structure and ionic conductivity will be investigated.

---
## Page 2
---

Table 1. Reaction products detected in the prepared $Li_2S$–$GeS_2$–$P_2S_5$ system.

| Sample Number | Mole fraction in starting material: $Li_2S$ | $GeS_2$ | $P_2S_5$ | Identified phases |
|---:|---:|---:|---:|---|
| 1 | 0.63 | 0.09 | 0.27 | $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 2 | 0.62 | 0.25 | 0.13 | $Li_3PS_4$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 3 | 0.61 | 0.33 | 0.06 | $Li_4GeS_4$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 4 | 0.60 | 0.16 | 0.24 | $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 5 | 0.50 | 0.20 | 0.30 | $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$ |
| 6 | 0.50 | 0.33 | 0.17 | $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 7 | 0.45 | 0.38 | 0.17 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 8 | 0.50 | 0.51 | 0.42 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$ |
| 9 | 0.49 | 0.44 | 0.07 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$ |
| 10 | 0.49 | 0.43 | 0.07 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$ |
| 11 | 0.46 | 0.47 | 0.07 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$ |
| 12 | 0.48 | 0.47 | 0.06 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 13 | 0.48 | 0.42 | 0.10 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$ |
| 14 | 0.46 | 0.46 | 0.09 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$ |
| 15 | 0.44 | 0.49 | 0.07 | Argyrodit e$^{c}$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$ |
| 16 | 0.41 | 0.52 | 0.07 | $GeS_2$, unknown$^{a}$ |
| 17 | 0.33 | 0.33 | 0.34 | $Li_4P_2S_6$, $GeS_2$ |

Italic characters represent the main phase for each composition.  
$^{a}$ Unknown = unidentified phases.  
$^{b}$ Composition of number 9 is $Li_2Ge_3P_{12}$.  
$^{c}$ Argyrodit e = a phase exhibiting an argyrodite-type structure.

2. Materials and methods

The starting materials, $Li_2S$ (99.9%, Nippon Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd.), $GeS_2$ (>99.99%, Kojundo Chemical Laboratory Co. Ltd.), and $P_2S_5$ (99%, Sigma-Aldrich), were mixed in the appropriate molar ratios (see Table 1) in an Ar-filled glovebox. All mixtures were pelletized, placed into carbon-coated quartz glass tubes, and sealed in a ~10 Pa vacuum. The samples were then heated at 870 °C for 8 h in a furnace and cooled slowly to 28 °C. The reaction products were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction under an argon atmosphere using a Rigaku SmartLab powder X-ray diffractometer with Cu K$\alpha$ radiation (45 kV, 200 mA). The diffraction data were collected at 25 °C in a $2\theta$ range of 10–120° with a step width of 0.01°.

The synchrotron X-ray diffraction pattern of the powdered sample was obtained at 25 °C using a Debye–Scherrer camera with an imaging plate at the BL02B2 beam line, at a wavelength of 0.6 Å. All measurements were carried out at the SPring-8 facility. Synchrotron X-ray diffraction data were analyzed using the Rietveld method and the RIETAN-FP package [16].

Ionic conductivity was determined using an alternating current (ac) impedance method in the frequency range of 1–1 MHz using a Solartron 1260 frequency response analyzer. A disk-shaped sample (thickness: ~1 mm, diameter: ~6 mm) was prepared for conductivity measurements by solidifying the melt above the melting point of the material (~570 °C). Gold paste electrodes were coated on the surfaces of the disk prior to heating under vacuum at 150 °C for 3 h. The data were collected under a flow of Ar gas between 25 and 105 °C. Differential thermal analysis (DTA) was performed using a Rigaku Thermo Plus TG 8120 system between 24 and 900 °C for the sample sealed in an evacuated quartz ampule.

The charge and discharge characteristics of the all-solid-state battery were examined using $Li_{10}GeP_2S_{12}$ as a solid electrolyte. The positive and negative electrodes were composed of a mixture of LiNbO$_3$-coated LiCoO$_2$ and Li–In metal (thicknesses: 0.3 mm (Li) and 0.1 mm (In), diameters: 10 mm (Li and In)) [17]. The electrochemical properties of the cell were determined using a TOSCAT-3100 battery analyzer (Toyo System Co. Ltd.). A cycling test was carried out between 1.9 and 3.6 V (vs. Li–In: ~0.6 V vs. $Li/Li^+$) at an applied current of $7.25\ \mathrm{mA\,g^{-1}}$ at 25 °C.

3. Results and discussion

A materials search for lithium-ion conductors was carried out using the formation diagram of the quasi–ternary $Li_2S$–$GeS_2$–$P_2S_5$ system, which is depicted in Fig. 1. In this system, intermediate crystalline compounds, such as $Li_3PS_4$ (thio-LISICON structure) [18], $Li_7P_6S_{11}$ (argyrodite structure) [9], and $Li_7P_3S_{11}$[10] exist in the $Li_2S$–$P_2S_5$ tie line, while $Li_4GeS_4$[19–22] and the $Li_4GeP_{2}S_{12}$-type $Li_{4-x}Ge_{1-x}P_xS_4$ solid-solution exist in the $Li_3PS_4$–$Li_4GeS_4$ tie line [1,7,23]. Although other compositions have also been reported [24,25], large regions of the diagram remain unexamined. Table 1 summarizes the compositions synthesized herein along with the phase identification results obtained from X-ray diffraction measurements. For clarity, all compositions are numbered consistently throughout Figs. 1 and 2. A number of X-ray diffraction patterns of the materials synthesized in the ternary system are provided in Fig. 2, which shows that the observed peaks were indexed as $GeS_2$, $Li_4P_2S_6$, $Li_3PS_4$, and $Li_4GeS_4$, together with peaks corresponding to the new argyrodite phase. Specific analysis close to the region of formation of the new phase indicated that this novel phase could be generated with a nominal composition close to that of $Li_2Ge_3P_{12}$ (see composition number 9 in Table 1).

Fig. 3 shows the X-ray diffraction patterns of both $Li_{10}GeP_2S_{12}$ and the cubic high-temperature modification of $Li_7P_6S_{11}$ with the $F\overline{4}3m$ space group (no. 216) (ICSD no. 421130) exhibiting an argyrodite-type structure. The two diffraction patterns are similar, indicating that the novel $Li_2Ge_3P_{12}$ phase also exhibits a cubic argyrodite-type structure. The diffraction peaks of this new phase were indexed assuming a cubic unit cell with an $F\overline{4}3m$ space group. Interestingly, the shifts of a number of peaks to higher angles compared to the $Li_7P_6S_{11}$ pattern indicate that the new phase contains smaller lattice parameters.

---
## Page 3
---

Moreover, the additional signals could be assigned to $Li_4P_2S_6$[26], indicating the presence of small amounts of this impurity phase.

The crystal structure of the new phase was determined using synchrotron X-ray diffraction data of the powdered $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ sample at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. A two-phase model based on $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ argyrodite (space group: $F\bar{4}3m$) and $Li_4P_2S_6$ (space group: $P6_3/mcm$) as the main phase and second impurity phase, respectively, was used for the refinement. The initial parameters for the Rietveld refinement of $Li_7PS_6$ were also employed for the novel material, i.e., space group $F\bar{4}3m$ (no. 216), Li at $48h$, P at $4b$, and S at $16e$, $4a$, and $4c$ sites [27]. Since $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ has a larger number of multivalent cations in its structure, the positions of P and Ge were initially examined for both the $48h$ and $4b$ sites. Indeed, the refinement provided a good reliability factor assuming that both Ge and P occupy the original position of the P $4b$ site in the cubic argyrodite-type structure. In addition, the Li and Ge components were refined at the original Li positions of the $48h$ site. The final refinement and structural parameters are summarized in Table 2, and the interatomic distances and bond angles are outlined in Table 3. Furthermore, the refinement pattern is shown in Fig. 4. From these results, we determined that the two-phase model provided a good fitting, with an $R_{\mathrm{wp}}$ value of $2.45\%$.

The structure of the argyrodite-type $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ structure determined using the above refinement results adopts a cubic structure with a lattice parameter, $a$, equal to $9.78525(5)\ \AA$, which is smaller than that of $Li_7PS_6$ ($a = 9.993\ \AA$). The structure is characterized by the ordered arrangement of four (Ge/P)S$_4$ tetrahedra, which contrasts to both the four PS$_4$ tetrahedra present in $Li_7PS_6$ and the anion substituted system observed for $Li_6PS_5X$ ($X = Cl, Br, I$). In addition, lithium ions are distributed in the tetrahedral $48h$ site, which exists in a bi-pyramidal structure formed by two LiS$_4$ tetrahedra connected through face sharing. Structural analysis indicated that Ge was also distributed in the $48h$ site, with refinement results giving Li and Ge occupation parameters in the $48h$ site of $0.42$ and $0.08$, respectively. In addition, the (Ge/P)-S bond distance (i.e., $2.093\ \AA$) in the (Ge/P)S$_4$ tetrahedra of $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ is larger than that in $Li_7PS_6$ (i.e., $2.042\ \AA$), which is consistent with the difference in the ionic radii between P and Ge (ionic radii: $Li$ (C.N.4) $=0.59\ \AA$; $Ge$ (C.N.4) $=0.39\ \AA$; $P$ (C.N.4) $=0.17\ \AA$). Furthermore, the Li–S distance of $2.41$–$2.52\ \AA$ in the LiS$_4$ tetrahedra of $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ is shorter than that of $Li_7PS_6$ (i.e., $2.45$–$2.59\ \AA$), which indicates substitution of the smaller Ge ion at the Li $48h$ site. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report to demonstrate the co-existence of Ge with Li at the center of tetrahedral sites in sulfide compounds. The contracted bond length between (Li/Ge) and S and the occupation parameter of Ge in the $48h$ site ($g(\mathrm{Ge})/[g(\mathrm{Li})+g(\mathrm{Ge})] = 0.24$) support the structural model with the partial distribution of Ge in Li sites. Although detailed structural analysis with neutron powder diffraction will be examined in the future, these structural changes are consistent with the lower lattice parameter for the novel Ge-substituted phase.

The complex impedance plots (Nyquist plots) for $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ measured at several temperatures between $25$ and $105\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. The spike shown in the plot corresponds to the electrode contribution,

Table 2

Structural parameters obtained from Rietveld refinement analysis of the synchrotron XRD data of $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ using the $F\bar{4}3m$ space group.

| Atom   | Site | g                          | x             | y                | z            | B (Å$^2$) |
|--------|------|----------------------------|---------------|------------------|--------------|-----------|
| Li(1)  | 48 h | 0.2884(9)                  | 0.81875(19)   | = x[Li(1)]       | 0.0140(4)    | 4.86(13)  |
| Ge(1)  | 48 h | = 0.375–g[Li(1)]           | = x[Li(1)]    | = x[Li(1)]       | = z[Li(1)]   | = B[Li(1)]|
| P(1)   | 4 b  | 0.499(5)                   | 1/2           | 1/2              | 1/2          | 1.95(3)   |
| Ge(2)  | 4 b  | = 1–g[P(1)]                | 1/2           | 1/2              | 1/2          | = B[P(1)] |
| S(1)   | 16 e | 1.0                        | 0.62329(10)   | = x[S(1)]        | = x[S(1)]    | 5.71(6)   |
| S(2)   | 4 c  | 1.0                        | 1/4           | 1/4              | 1/4          | 5.92(8)   |
| S(3)   | 4 a  | 1.0                        | 0             | 0                | 0            | 7.11(9)   |

Unit cell: Cubic $F\bar{4}3m$ (216); $a = 9.80192(3)\ \AA$, $V = 941.744(5)\ \AA^3$; $R_{\mathrm{wp}} = 2.45\%$, $R_e = 2.19\%$, $R_p = 1.40\%$, $R_b = 2.67\%$, $R_f = 2.70\%$, goodness of fit $S = R_{\mathrm{wp}}/R_e = 1.12$; secondary phase: $Li_4P_2S_6$ (~2.4 mass%).

---
## Page 4
---

Table 3  
Interatomic bond distances ($\mathrm{\AA}$) and angles ($^\circ$) for $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ (upper table) and $Li_7PS_6$ (lower table).

| $(Ge/P)S_4$ (Tetrahedra) | distance / angle | $(Li/Ge)S_4$ (Tetrahedra) | distance / angle |
|---|---:|---|---:|
| $(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{i}$ | $2.0931(6)\ \AA$ | $(Li/Ge)$–S(1)$^{i}$ | $2.409(4)\ \AA$ |
| $(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{ii}$ | $2.0931(6)\ \AA$ | $(Li/Ge)$–S(1)$^{v}$ | $2.4091(19)\ \AA$ |
| $(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{iii}$ | $2.0931(6)\ \AA$ | $(Li/Ge)$–S(2) | $2.5021(11)\ \AA$ |
| $(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $2.0931(6)\ \AA$ | $(Li/Ge)$–S(3) | $2.516(3)\ \AA$ |
| S(1)–$(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{ii}$ | $109.47(4)^\circ$ | S(1)–$(Li/Ge)$–S(1)$^{v}$ | $93.62(8)^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{i}$–$(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{iii}$ | $109.47(4)^\circ$ | S(1)$^{i}$–$(Li/Ge)$–S(2) | $111.45(9)^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{i}$–$(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $109.47(4)^\circ$ | S(1)$^{i}$–$(Li/Ge)$–S(3) | $111.38(13)^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{ii}$–$(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $109.47(4)^\circ$ | S(1)$^{v}$–$(Li/Ge)$–S(2) | $111.45(15)^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{iii}$–$(Ge/P)$–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $109.47(4)^\circ$ | S(1)$^{v}$–$(Li/Ge)$–S(3) | $111.38(9)^\circ$ |
|  |  | S(2)–$(Li/Ge)$–S(3) | $115.51(7)^\circ$ |

| $PS_4$ (Tetrahedra) | distance / angle | $LiS_4$ (Tetrahedra) | distance / angle |
|---|---:|---|---:|
| P–S(1)$^{i}$ | $2.04231\ \AA$ | Li–S(1)$^{i}$ | $2.53041\ \AA$ |
| P–S(1)$^{ii}$ | $2.04231\ \AA$ | Li–S(1)$^{v}$ | $2.53041\ \AA$ |
| P–S(1)$^{iii}$ | $2.04231\ \AA$ | Li–S(2) | $2.45152\ \AA$ |
| P–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $2.04231\ \AA$ | Li–S(3) | $2.59016\ \AA$ |
| S(1)–P–S(1)$^{ii}$ | $109.4712^\circ$ | S(1)–Li–S(1)$^{v}$ | $94.9845^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{i}$–P–S(1)$^{iii}$ | $109.4712^\circ$ | S(1)$^{i}$–Li–S(2) | $111.7088^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{i}$–P–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $109.4712^\circ$ | S(1)$^{i}$–Li–S(3) | $108.8705^\circ$ |
| S(1)$^{ii}$–P–S(1)$^{iv}$ | $109.4712^\circ$ | S(1)$^{v}$–Li–S(2) | $111.7088^\circ$ |
|  |  | S(1)$^{v}$–Li–S(3) | $108.8705^\circ$ |
|  |  | S(2)–Li–S(3) | $118.2112^\circ$ |

Symmetry codes: (i) $x, y, z$; (ii) $-z, -y, x$; (iii) $-z, y, -x$; (iv) $z, -y, -x$; (v) $-z+\tfrac{1}{2},\ y,\ -x+\tfrac{1}{2}$.

the intercept of the extrapolated straight line with the x-axis (i.e., the $Z'$ value at $Z''=0$) corresponds to the sum of the bulk and grain boundary contributions of the samples, and the ionic conductivity could be calculated as the sum of the bulk and grain boundary resistance values. Indeed, our material exhibited similar behavior to previously reported solid-sulfide lithium-ion conductors [23]. In addition, the temperature dependence of the $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ conductivity is shown in Fig. 6(b). The conductivity value for the new material at $25\,^\circ\mathrm{C}$ was determined to be $1.1\times10^{-4}\ \mathrm{S\ cm}^{-1}$, which is high compared to that of $Li_6PS_5X$ (X = Cl, Br, I) (i.e., $10^{-7}$--$10^{-4}\ \mathrm{S\ cm}^{-1}$) [15]. Furthermore, the high ionic conductivity could be attributed to the disordered arrangement of lithium ions within the structure, which is characteristic of argyrodite-type lithium-ion conductors (see Table 4) [15]. As indicated, the conductivity of $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ is comparable to that of fast lithium-ion conductors, such as $Li_6PS_5X$ (X = Cl, Br). Moreover, the activation energy during the heating process was calculated to be $25\ \mathrm{kJ\ mol}^{-1}$ at $25$--$100\,^\circ\mathrm{C}$, which is lower than that of $Li_7PS_6$ (i.e., $32\ \mathrm{kJ\ mol}^{-1}$) [8]. Based on synchrotron XRD data, the presence of amorphous and $Li_4P_2S_6$ impurities was also indicated in addition to the main

---
## Page 5
---

Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ phase. The quantity of Li$_4$PS$_6$ was estimated to be $\sim 2.4\ \mathrm{wt\%}$, and this phase had a low ionic conductivity of $2.4\times10^{-7}\ S\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$ as reported previously [28]. The contribution of the non-crystalline phase to the observed high ionic conductivity was confirmed by measuring the conductivity of the pure non-crystalline phase synthesized by quenching the mixture of the same composition with Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ from $950\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. In this case, the conductivity of the glass sample was estimated to be $\sim 10^{-6}\ S\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$. In addition, the conductivity of Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ (i.e., $1.1\times10^{-4}\ S\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$) was higher than those of both Li$_4$PS$_6$ and the non-crystalline phases by two or three orders of magnitude. Therefore, the observed conductivity for the mixture was mainly attributed to the intrinsic properties of the crystalline Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$, as the single Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ phase is expected to exhibited higher conductivity than $1.1\times10^{-4}\ S\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$.

However, the activation energy for ionic conduction in Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ is significantly higher than those of Li$_6$PS$_5X$ (X = Cl, Br), despite the similarities between the lattice sizes, thus indicating that the ionic conduction mechanism of Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ differs from that of Li$_6$PS$_5X$ (X = Cl, Br). Although the high ionic conductivity of Li$_6$PS$_5X$ (X = Cl, Br) is due to the disordered arrangement of $S^{2-}$ and $X^-$ ions in the structure, it appears that the high ionic conductivity of Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ is attributed to the distribution of cations within the structure, and in particular the distribution of Li$^+$ ions. Thus, determination of the detailed cation distribution in the structure by neutron diffraction studies will allow the ionic conduction mechanism of Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ to be elucidated.

Fig. 7 shows the DTA curves of Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ during heating and cooling, and the XRD patterns recorded both before and after the DTA measurements are also shown. During heating, exothermic and endothermic peaks were observed at $450$ and $570\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$, respectively. The exothermic peak is generally caused by a transformation from a metastable to a stable phase upon heating, which suggests that Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ is in a metastable state at low temperatures. The series of endothermic peaks at $\sim 550$ and $570\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$ correspond to a phase transition to the low-temperature phase of Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$ and the melting of the phase, respectively. In the cooling cycle, the liquid-solid phase transition was confirmed at $520\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$, with crystallization at $500\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$ being indicated by an exothermic peak. In addition, a small endothermic peak was observed at $370\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$ in the cooling cycle, which was assigned to the phase transition from a metastable phase to a stable phase. From the XRD measurements following DTA, no clear change in crystal structure was observed, which indicates that the reaction kinetics of the metastable (high temperature) to stable (low temperature) phase transition were particularly low. The phase relationship around the low- and high-temperature phases will be elucidated in further studies.

The all-solid-state battery properties were then examined using Li$_7$Ge$_3$PS$_{12}$, Li–In, and LiNbO$_3$-coated LiCoO$_2$/Li$_{10}$GeP$_2$S$_{12}$ as the electrolyte, anode, and cathode materials, respectively. Fig. 8 shows the charge-discharge curves of the cell at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. The plateau regions of the charge curves at approximately $3.4\ \mathrm{V}$ likely correspond to the lithium extraction/insertion reaction of LiCoO$_2$. In addition, the cells exhibited an initial discharge capacity of $\sim 80\ \mathrm{mAh\ g}^{-1}$, which is slightly smaller than capacities reported for all-solid-state batteries containing

| Composition | Ionic Conductivity $\sigma$ / $10^{-6}\ \mathrm{S\ cm}^{-1}$ | Activation Energy $E_a$ / kJ mol$^{-1}$ | Lattice parameter $a$ / $\mathrm{\AA}$ | Bond distance $d$ / $\mathrm{\AA}$ Li–S | Bond distance $d$ / $\mathrm{\AA}$ P–S | Ref. |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $Li_7Ge_3PS_{12}$ | 110 ($300\ \mathrm{K}$) | 25 | 9.802 | 2.409(4) | 2.0931(6) | – |
| $Li_6PS_5Cl$ | 740 (r.t.) | 11 | 9.850 | 2.4833 | 2.0395 | 15 |
| $Li_6PS_5Br$ | 720 (r.t.) | 16 | 9.980 | 2.5222 | 2.0489 | 15 |
| $Li_6PS_5I$ | 0.46 (r.t.) | 24 | 10.142 | 2.6635 | 2.0459 | 15 |
| HT-$Li_7PS_6$ | 30 ($573\ \mathrm{K}$) | 34 | 9.993 | 2.5256 | 2.0423 | 8 |
| LT-$Li_7PS_6$ | 1.6 ($313\ \mathrm{K}$) | 15 | – | – | – | 8 |

HT and LT indicate high-temperature and low-temperature modifications of the crystal structures, respectively.

---
## Page 6
---

a sulfide-based electrolyte [29]. Furthermore, although the capacity decreased following the $1^{st}$ cycle, we expect that the cycling characteristics can be improved by optimization of the mixing and processing conditions employed by solid fabrication [17]. Thus, the above results indicate that $Li_7Ge_3P_{12}$ is a potential candidate for use as a solid electrolyte in all-solid-state batteries.

4. Conclusions

Novel lithium-ion conducting solids were identified within the quasi-ternary $Li_2S$--$GeS_2$--$P_2S_5$ system, and the cubic argyrodite-type $Li_7Ge_3P_{12}$ was identified as a possible material for application as a solid electrolyte in all-solid-state batteries. The crystal structure of this material was found to contain isolated $(\mathrm{Ge}/\mathrm{P})\mathrm{S}_4$ tetrahedra, which formed the framework structure, with $Li$ and $Ge$ being distributed in the three-dimensional channels within the assembly. This material exhibited a high ionic conductivity of $1.1\times10^{-4}\ \mathrm{S\ cm}^{-1}$ at $25\,^\circ\mathrm{C}$ and a low activation energy of $25\ \mathrm{kJ\ mol}^{-1}$, in addition to demonstrating phase stability up to $400\,^\circ\mathrm{C}$. We therefore expect that the discovery of this novel material and its relatively high ionic conductivity will aid in the design of superior lithium-ion conductors exhibiting the argyrodite-type structure. Future studies will focus on elucidation of the phase relationships in the low- and high-temperature phases of this material. Finally, use of neutron diffraction studies to determine the cation distribution within the structure is expected to allow elucidation of the ionic conduction mechanism of $Li_7Ge_3P_{12}$.

---
## Page 7
---

