

---
## Page 1
---

# Mechanochemically Prepared $Li_2S$–$P_2S_5$–$LiBH_4$ Solid Electrolytes with an Argyrodite Structure

ABSTRACT: Solid electrolytes with compositions of $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ (mol %, $0 \le x \le 100$) were mechanochemically prepared from the $75Li_2S\cdot25P_2S_5$ (mol %) glass and $LiBH_4$ crystal. The samples with $x \ge 43$ have crystalline phases and those with $x \le 33$ formed a glassy phase. The crystalline phase was identified as argyrodite $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$. The $x = 50$ sample formed a crystalline phase and demonstrated a high lithium‑ion conductivity of $1.8\times10^{-3}\ \text{S cm}^{-1}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$ with an activation energy of $16\ \text{kJ mol}^{-1}$. The argyrodite‑type crystal with a $BH_4^{-}$ anion that occupies the halide site is a novel and promising solid electrolyte.

## 1. INTRODUCTION

All-solid-state lithium-ion batteries have attracted significant attention as next-generation batteries. The performance of the all-solid-state batteries strongly depends on the conductivities of the solid electrolytes. Recently, sulfide-based solid electrolytes have become more widespread because they possess high conductivities ($>10^{-3}\ \text{S cm}^{-1}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$) and good mechanical properties for the formation of effective interfaces between solids. Adding lithium halides to glass electrolytes is well-known to be effective in improving conductivity. For example, $LiI$ in addition to sulfide-based glasses resulted in a high conductivity of $10^{-3}\ \text{S cm}^{-1}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. Argyrodite $Li_6PS_5X$ ($X = \text{Cl, Br, and I}$) also displayed high conductivities of over $10^{-3}\ \text{S cm}^{-1}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$.

Lithium borohydride ($LiBH_4$) has been reported to exhibit high lithium-ion conductivity and high stability to reduction at high temperatures. $LiBH_4$ is also attractive as an additive salt in the solid electrolyte. Previous investigations have revealed that the addition of $LiBH_4$ to sulfide-based glassy solid electrolytes by a mechanochemical process increases their conductivities. The glasses were fabricated with compositions ranging from $x = 0$ to $33$ in $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ (mol %). It was discovered that crystals precipitated in samples with $x \ge 43$. A similar crystalline phase was also observed in the $LiBH_4$–$P_2S_5$ system.

In this study, we mechanochemically prepared solid electrolytes with crystalline phases with a composition of $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$. We determined that the prepared crystal had an argyrodite phase and that the $BH_4^{-}$ anion occupied the halide site of the argyrodite structure. The solid electrolytes with the argyrodite-type phase exhibited a high lithium-ion conductivity of $1.8\times10^{-3}\ \text{S cm}^{-1}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$.

## 2. METHODS

Solid electrolytes with compositions of $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ (mol %, $43 \le x \le 100$) were prepared via a mechanochemical process. In addition, $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ (mol %, $x = 0$ and $33$) glasses were prepared by the same process for comparison. $Li_2S$ (Idemitsu Kosan, 99.9%), $P_2S_5$ (Aldrich, 99%), and $LiBH_4$ (Aldrich, 90%) were used as starting materials. First, a stoichiometrically calculated mixture of $Li_2S$ and $P_2S_5$ was mechanically milled in a 225 mL $ZrO_2$ pot with 2500 $ZrO_2$ balls (4 mm in diameter) using a planetary ball mill (Fritsch, Pulverisette 5) at 213 rpm for 45 h. The resulting $75Li_2S\cdot25P_2S_5$ glass was then mixed with a calculated amount of $LiBH_4$ crystals. Mechanical milling of this mixture was performed in a 45 mL $ZrO_2$ pot with 500 $ZrO_2$ balls (4 mm in diameter) using a planetary ball mill (Fritsch, Pulverisette 7) at 510 rpm for 15 h to form the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ solid electrolytes. All processes were performed under a dry Ar atmosphere. The compositions of the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ samples are given in Table 1. The ratio of $BH_4^{-}$ and $PS_4^{3-}$ was varied by integral ratios.

Received: March 2, 2018  
Accepted: May 7, 2018  
Published: May 21, 2018

---
## Page 2
---

Table 1. Compositions of $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ Samples

| $x$ | composition |
|---:|---|
| 0 | $=Li_3PS_4$ |
| 33 | $=50\,Li_3PS_4\cdot50\,LiBH_4$ / $=Li_4PS_4(BH_4)$ |
| 43 | $=40\,Li_3PS_4\cdot60\,LiBH_4$ / $=Li_{4.5}PS_4(BH_4)_{1.5}$ |
| 50 | $=33\,Li_3PS_4\cdot67\,LiBH_4$ / $=Li_5PS_4(BH_4)_2$ |
| 54 | $=30\,Li_3PS_4\cdot70\,LiBH_4$ / $=Li_{5.3}PS_4(BH_4)_{2.3}$ |
| 82 | $=10\,Li_3PS_4\cdot90\,LiBH_4$ / $=Li_{12}PS_4(BH_4)_9$ |
| 100 | $=LiBH_4$ |

X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements with Cu K$\alpha$ radiation ($\lambda = 0.1542\ \mathrm{nm}$) were performed using a diffractometer (Rigaku, Ultima IV). An air-sealing holder was used to prevent exposure of the samples to air. Rietveld refinements were performed using RIETAN-FP.22 The XRD data were collected in the $2\theta$ range between $10^\circ$ and $80^\circ$ at a scan rate of $0.1^\circ\ \mathrm{min}^{-1}$ and a step size of $0.02^\circ$. The structure was refined starting from the published XRD data by Rayavarapu et al.15 Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) was performed on the obtained samples sealed in an Al pan in a glovebox using a thermal analyzer (Seiko Instruments Inc., DSC6200) at a scanning rate of $10^\circ\mathrm{C}\ \mathrm{min}^{-1}$. Raman spectra were obtained using a Raman spectrometer (HORIBA, LabRAM HR-800) with a $325\ \mathrm{nm}$ He–Cd laser. To measure electrical conductivities, the samples were first placed under $360\ \mathrm{MPa}$ pressure at room temperature to form pellets $10\ \mathrm{mm}$ in diameter and $1$–$1.5\ \mathrm{mm}$ in thickness, as impedance measurements were performed using an impedance analyzer (Solartron, 1260) in the frequency range of $0.1\ \mathrm{Hz}$ to $8\ \mathrm{MHz}$. The all-solid-state cells were constructed in the same way as previously reported elsewhere except that newly developed solid electrolytes were used.9

3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Figure 1 shows the XRD patterns of the mechanochemically prepared $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ samples. The XRD patterns for $x = 0$ and $33$ display characteristic halo patterns; it has been previously reported that the samples with $x \leq 33$ have a glassy state.20 For the samples with $43 \leq x \leq 82$, unknown diffraction peaks, which were not attributed to the starting materials of $Li_2S$, $P_2S_5$, or $LiBH_4$, were observed in the XRD patterns. In the XRD pattern of the $x = 82$ sample, the peaks attributed to $LiBH_4^{23}$ were also observed, suggesting that unreacted $LiBH_4$ was present in a small quantity in the $x = 82$ sample.

The DSC curves of the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ samples and the $LiBH_4$ crystal are shown in Figure 2.

Gas generations were detected in $Li_2S$–$P_2S_5$–LiI samples under $220^\circ\mathrm{C}$. For example, the weight loss due to the gas generation was detected at $180^\circ\mathrm{C}$ in the $x = 50$ sample by thermogravimetric analysis conducted before the DSC measurements. Thus, the DSC measurements were conducted below the gas generation temperature. The gas generation would be caused by thermal decomposition of the samples. This suggests that this series of materials can be prepared only by the low-temperature process. An endothermic peak at $113^\circ\mathrm{C}$ in the $LiBH_4$ curve can be attributable to a phase transition from orthorhombic to hexagonal,24 which is observed at $113^\circ\mathrm{C}$. A similar endothermic peak is not observed for the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ samples except for the $x = 82$ sample, which partially includes the $LiBH_4$ crystal. The DSC curves for the $x = 43$, $50$, and $54$ samples exhibit broad exothermic peaks at approximately $60$–$160^\circ\mathrm{C}$. The $x = 0$ sample has an exothermic peak at $213^\circ\mathrm{C}$, which has been reported to arise from the crystallization of the glass.25 Thus, it is considered that the broad exothermic profiles observed in the $x = 43$, $50$, and $54$ samples are attributable to the crystallization and/or increase in the crystallinity.

Figure 3 shows the Raman spectra of the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ samples and the $LiBH_4$ crystal between $200$ and $3000\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$. The band at $420\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$ can be attributed to the $PS_4^{3-}$ ions26 and is observed for samples containing $LiBH_4$. Samples containing $LiBH_4$ also display a broad band at approximately $2330\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$. This band can be attributed to $BH_4^{-}$ ion vibrations. Vibration of the internal $BH_4^{-}$ ions results in strong bands at $2275$ and $2300\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$ for the orthorhombic low-temperature phase and a broad band at approximately $2300\ \mathrm{cm}^{-1}$ for the hexagonal high-temperature phase.27 The bands observed in the spectra of the samples with $x \leq 54$ are similar to those observed in the high-temperature phase. The band observed in the spectrum of the samples with $x = 82$ is similar to that observed in the low-temperature phase.27 The rotation of the $BH_4^{-}$ ions probably accelerates in the high-temperature phase,28,29 where there is delocalization of

---
## Page 3
---

the negative charge on the $BH_4^-$ ions. The $BH_4^-$ and $Li^+$ ions have weakened electrostatic interactions in the high-temperature $LiBH_4$ phase and the $x \le 54$ samples prepared in this study.

The temperature dependence of the conductivities of the $50(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot50LiBH_4$ solid electrolyte ($x = 50$) and $75Li_2S\cdot25P_2S_5$ glass ($x = 0$) is shown in Figure 4. The $LiBH_4$ crystal data reported by Matsuo et al.17 are also shown for comparison. In the temperature range from $20$ to $70\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$, the conductivities of the samples with $x = 50$ obey the Arrhenius law and the conduction activation energy is determined to be $16\ \mathrm{kJ\ mol^{-1}}$. Although higher conductivities are obtained above $70\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$, accurate values are difficult to measure because of the extremely low resistance. The crystalline sample with $x = 50$ exhibits a higher conductivity ($1.8 \times 10^{-3}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$) at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$ than those of the $75Li_2S\cdot25P_2S_5$ glass samples ($2.7 \times 10^{-4}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$) and the $LiBH_4$ crystal high-temperature phase ($1.0 \times 10^{-3}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at $115\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$).17

The influence of composition on the conductivity at room temperature and activation energies for the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ solid electrolytes is shown in Figure 5. The experimental results of the glassy electrolytes with $x = 0$, $11$, and $33${20} are also shown. In the glass-forming region, the conductivity of the glasses increases and the activation energies decrease with increasing $LiBH_4$ content. The $x = 50$ crystalline sample displays higher conductivity and lower activation energy than those of the other compositions, suggesting that the crystalline phase exhibits high lithium-ion conductivity. The conductivity dramatically decreased in the $x = 54$ and $x = 82$ samples. The conductivity of the $x = 82$ sample was less than $10^{-6}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. The reason of the decrease of the conductivity has not been clarified yet. One possibility is that the highly resistive amorphous materials such as $LiBH_4$ were formed at grain boundary of the highly conducting argyrodite crystallites in the sample. The possibility of decreasing the conductivities of the crystalline phase with argyrodite phase was also not denied at the present stage.

To characterize the crystal structure, samples with higher crystallinity were prepared by heat treatment at $130\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$. Figure 6a shows the XRD patterns of the as-obtained and heat-treated samples with an $x = 50$ composition. The intensities of the diffraction peaks observed in the spectra of the as-obtained sample increase with the heat treatment, indicating that the exothermic peaks observed in Figure 2 can be attributed to crystallization. The DSC results indicate that the $x > 33$

---
## Page 4
---

Table 2. Refined Structural Parameters of $Li_8PS_5(BH_4)$ in Space Group $F\bar{4}3m$ (Cubic) at Room Temperature\textsuperscript{a}

| atom | site | site occupancy | $x$ | $y$ | $z$ | $10^2 \times B/\text{nm}^2$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $Li1$ | $48h$ | $0.44$ | $0.3393(3)$ | $=Li1(x)$ | $0.015(5)$ | $6.95$ |
| $Li2$ | $24g$ | $0.12$ | $1/4$ | $1/4$ | $0.01(4)$ | $6.95$ |
| $P1$ | $4b$ | $1$ | $1/2$ | $1/2$ | $1/2$ | $2.7(4)$ |
| $B1$ | $4a$ | $0.67(4)$ | $0$ | $0$ | $0$ | $2.4(10)$ |
| $S1$ | $4a$ | $=1 - B1(g)$ | $=B1(x)$ | $=B1(y)$ | $=B1(z)$ | $=B1(B)$ |
| $B2$ | $4d$ | $=1 - B1(g)$ | $3/4$ | $3/4$ | $3/4$ | $1$ |
| $S2$ | $4d$ | $=1 - B2(g)$ | $=B2(x)$ | $=B2(y)$ | $=B2(z)$ | $=B2(B)$ |
| $S3$ | $16e$ | $1$ | $0.3813(6)$ | $=S3(x)$ | $=S3(x)$ | $0.3(3)$ |
| $H1$ | $16e$ | $=B1(g)$ | $0.07$ | $=H1(x)$ | $=-H1(x)$ | $1$ |
| $H2$ | $16e$ | $=1 - H1(g)$ | $0.68$ | $=H2(x)$ | $=H2(x)$ | $1$ |

\textsuperscript{a}Lattice parameter: $a = 1.001(8)\ \text{nm}$. R-factor: $R_{wp} = 3.36\%$, $R_p = 2.61\%$, $R_e = 1.27\%$, and $S = 2.65$.

samples are primarily composed of crystal and glass components. The pattern of the newly formed crystal phase is similar to that of the argyrodite-type crystal $Li_6PS_5X$ ($X = \text{Cl},\ \text{Br},\ \text{I}$), suggesting that the obtained crystalline phase is argyrodite-type. The ionic radii of $Cl^-$ ($0.168\ \text{nm}$) and $Br^-$ ($0.195\ \text{nm}$) ions are similar to that of $BH_4^-$ ions ($0.205\ \text{nm}$). Thus, we presume that the $Li_{7-x}PS_{6-x}(BH_4)_x$ crystal precipitates, where $BH_4^-$ ions occupy the sites of $Cl^-$ or $Br^-$ ions in the $Li_{7-x}PS_{6-x}$ crystal. The structural model of the $Li_6PS_5Cl$ crystal reported by Rayavarapu et al. was used as a starting point for the Rietveld refinement.

Figure 6b shows the Rietveld refinement pattern of the heated $x = 50$ sample. The refined structural parameters for $Li_8PS_5(BH_4)$ obtained from the Rietveld refinements are summarized in Table 2. Peak indexing of the XRD data suggests that the new phase exhibits argyrodite structure in the space group $F\bar{4}3m$ with a lattice parameter of $1.001(8)\ \text{nm}$. The $BH_4^-$ and $S^{2-}$ ions are disordered over the $4a$ site $(0\ 0\ 0)$ ($67\%\ BH_4,\ 33\%\ S$) and $4d$ site $(3/4\ 3/4\ 3/4)$ ($33\%\ BH_4,\ 67\%\ S$). It was previously reported that disorder in the $S^{2-}/X^-$ ($X = \text{Cl},\ \text{Br},\ \text{I}$) distribution promotes lithium-ion mobility in argyrodite-type crystals. The large $I^-$ ions cannot be exchanged for $S^{2-}$ ions, and the resulting $Li_6PS_5I$ is more ordered and exhibits only moderate conductivity. The disorder in the $S^{2-}/BH_4^-$ distribution indicates that the $Li_8PS_5(BH_4)$ crystal exhibits high lithium-ion conductivity. The increase in the lattice parameter should also affect the conductivity of the crystal. The argyrodite-type $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$ phase refined here is a

---
## Page 5
---

novel lithium-ion conductor. In this study, the Rietveld refinements were performed using the XRD data of the low crystallinity sample. The Rietveld refinements for the neutron diffraction data of high crystallinity samples are necessary to determine more accurate atomic coordinates for hydrogen and lithium.

The conductivity of the heat-treated $x = 50$ sample was $1.9\times10^{-3}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$, which is almost similar to that of as-obtained samples. It is clear that the $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$ phase is more Li-rich compared with the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4\ (x = 50)$ solid electrolytes. This suggests that the glass matrix of the $x = 50$ sample has a lower $Li^+$ ion concentration than its nominal composition. However, the $x = 50$ solid electrolytes that included the $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$ phase and glass matrix exhibited a high lithium-ion conductivity of more than $10^{-3}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$. This suggests that both the glass matrix and $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$ phase display high lithium-ion conductivities. It is deemed necessary to synthesize single $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$ phase crystals and examine their conductivity in the future.

All-solid-state cells using mechanochemically prepared $Li_2S\!-\!P_2S_5\!-\!LiBH_4$ solid electrolytes with an argyrodite structure were assembled in order to show their potentials for practical applications. Figure 7 shows the charge–discharge curves of the all-solid-state cells using (a) $Li/TiS_2$, (b) $In/LiCoO_2$, and (c) $In/LiFePO_4$ and the $x = 50$ sample. All of the all-solid-state cells using $Li_2S\!-\!P_2S_5\!-\!LiBH_4$ was successfully charged and discharged with the large capacities comparable to the previously reported all-solid-state cells. There are few reports of the all-solid-state cells with a $LiFePO_4$ positive electrode material. The all-solid-state cell using Li metal was also charged and discharged. The $Li_2S\!-\!P_2S_5\!-\!LiBH_4$ solid electrolytes have high potential for practical use.

## 4. CONCLUSIONS

In this study, $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ solid electrolytes were prepared by a mechanochemical process. Glassy samples were obtained in the composition range for $x$ (mol %) from 0 to 33, and samples with argyrodite crystalline phase were obtained at $x > 33$. The DSC curves for the samples with $LiBH_4$ did not exhibit the peak attributed to the phase transition of $LiBH_4$. The Raman spectra of the $(100 - x)(0.75Li_2S\cdot0.25P_2S_5)\cdot xLiBH_4$ samples displayed bands attributed to both $BH_4^{-}$ and $PS_4^{3-}$ ions. In the glass-forming region, the conductivity of the glass increased with increasing $LiBH_4$ content. The $x = 50$ samples that included newly formed crystal phases also exhibited a high conductivity of $1.8\times10^{-3}\ \mathrm{S\ cm^{-1}}$ at $25\ ^\circ\mathrm{C}$ and a low conduction activation energy of $16\ \mathrm{kJ\ mol^{-1}}$. Through Rietveld refinements of the $x = 50$ sample, the novel crystal phase was identified as an argyrodite-type crystal, $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$. The disorder of the $S^{2-}/BH_4^{-}$ distribution indicates that the argyrodite-type crystal $Li_6PS_5(BH_4)$ exhibits high lithium-ion conductivity.

---
## Page 6
---

